## WELCOME to ACCORNS

ACCORNS or Admin Control Center Overseeing RAG Needed for SCUIRREL is the
instructor-facing backend application to SCUIRREL. Here you can set-up, manage and
monitor SCUIRREL and the students' interactions with it.

_If you are looking for more details on how to analyse the data collected by SCUIRREL or
ACCORNS, please read the [researcher guide](researcher.md)_

_If you are a developer, please read the [devloper guide](developer.md) for specific
implementation details_

## Uploading relevant course materials

Navigate to the _Vector database tab_

Instructors can upload text-based materials relevant to the topics students should
discuss with SCUIRREL. During the conversation, SCUIRREL will refer to these materials
using retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to improve the quality an accuracy of the
conversation.The files are processed and stored in a special vector database (part of
the app itself).

You need to have uploaded at least one document before you can start configuring topics
and concepts. This is because SCUIRREL will try to limit itself to draw knowledge from
the background information you provide instead of relying on its inherent knowledge as
large language model (LLM). The application should accept most text based file formats
(e.g. .txt, .pdf, .docx, .md) and even powerpoint slides (not extensively tested).

1. Click the _Pick a file_ button at the bottom of the page
2. Select a file from your local machine and upload it
3. Depending on the size of the file, it might take several minutes to process, during
   which additional uploads are not possible. Don't exit the app until finished
4. When the files has been processed successfully, it will appear in the table at the
   top of the screen and you can click it to view an AI generated summary

_NOTE: The uploaded material will be sent to the LLM (e.g. ChatGPT), so please ensure
that you have the necessary permissions to share this content and read the privacy
policies to know what is being done with your data on their side._

## Managing user access

Navigate to the _User management tab_

There are three types of access codes used to manage access to both SCUIRREL and ACCORNS
apps and their functionality:

- Account creation code
- Password reset code
- Group access code

_Note: the group access code is created and managed in the groups tab (see below)_

### Generate account creation codes

Students, instructors and admins need to be given an access code before they can access
ACCORNS or SCUIRREL. You can generate these codes by providing the following
information in the _User management tab_ form:

1. Number of codes to generate (you can always generate more if needed)
2. Role
   - Student codes allow students to create an account with SCUIRREL access
   - Instructor codes allow instructors to create an account with ACCORNS and SCUIRREL
     access. Instructors can be invited to join groups and manage them in ACCORNS (see
     below)
   - Admins codes (can only be generated by other admins) will allow new admins to join
     and fully manage all ACCORNS and SCUIRREL accounts and see everything from all
     instructors
3. Note: Optional note why you generated the codes, can help to keep track of unused
   codes

Once codes have been generated, you will be able to download them as a CSV file and can
distribute them. You can keep track of unused codes in the relevant table to monitor how
many have been used.

### See password reset codes

Anyone with ACCORNS access can help users (both SCUIRREL and ACCORNS) with a password
reset. A user who has forgotten their password will request a reset code, which will
appear in the relevant table. If someone reaches out to you, just ask their username and
you can give them the reset code. Once they have successfully reset their password, the
code will disappear from the table.

For more info on how to reset a password, see the [student guide](student.md)

## Managing groups

Navigate to the _groups tab_

The applications have been designed to be used by multiple instructors at once. To
prevent all content to be mixed, groups can to be created to separate topics and student
access by class or any other relevant grouping.

### Create a new group and invite people to it

To create a new group, click the _New group_ button and provide a group name.

Once a group is created, you can add additional instructors (group managers) or students
to it by generating group access codes and distributing them. NOte that each code can
only be used once. To generate the code provide the following:

1. Number of codes to generate (you can always generate more if needed)
2. Role
   - Student codes allow students to join the group in SCUIRREL and interact with all
     its assigned topics
   - Admins codes will allow another instructor or admin to join and manage the group in
     ACCORNS
3. Note: Optional note why you generated the codes, can help to keep track of unused
   codes

Once codes have been generated, you will be able to download them as a CSV file and can
distribute them to students / co-instructors. You can keep track of unused codes in the
relevant table to monitor how many have been used.

### Join an existing group

If you have been given an admin-level group code by a co-instructor, you can click the
_Join group_ button at the top of the Groups page. Once you have joined, you will be
able to manage the group and all its topics

## Managing topics and concepts

Navigate to the _topics tab_

### Create / edit a topic

Each **topic** you create will be a choice for students to discuss with SCUIRREL. You
can compare a topic to a textbook chapter. The scope should be something that can be
revised in a short conversation of a few minutes.

1. Select a group under which the topic will be stored (you can create new groups in the
   groups tab)
2. Depending on the add / edit / archive button clicked, you will be able to create or
   modify an existing topic

_It is recommended to only edit a topic in case of typos or small changes that do not
significantly change the covered content (create new one otherwise)_

### Add or edit concepts

For each topic, you have to create one or more **concepts**. A concept can be seen as a
topic-related fact or piece of information that you want SCUIRREL to check with your
students. Compare this to bullet points summarising a textbook chapter.

- You can add, edit or archive concepts as needed using the provided buttons underneath
  the table of concepts
- Early experiments suggest that about 5-10 concepts per topic is a good number to keep
  the conversation engaging but not too long, but feel free to experiment with this and
  provide us with feedback
- You can reorder topics by clicking the respective button. KNow that the order is
  important as it guides the conversation

The way SCUIRREL works is that it will use the topic as the main conversation thread,
and systematically check each of the concepts (in order) with the student by walking
through the list you created. Whilst this is happening, a second LLM will monitor the
conversation and decide if a student demonstrates enough understanding of a concept to
move on to the next one. Once all concepts belonging to a topic have been covered,
SCUIRREL will end the conversation.

## Generating quiz questions

Navigate to the _Quiz questions tab_

For each topic, you can also create quiz questions that students can take to verify
their topic understanding. The LLM will help generate these questions for you based on
the concepts you provided for a topic and the uploaded materials. To generate a new
question:

- Select a topic, and click the generate quiz question button
- The LLM will try and generate a question, 4 possible answers and an explanation why
  each answer is correct or incorrect
- It is possible the LLM fails at this task in which case you might see an error message
  and can try again later
- Once generated, you will have the option to review everything and edit any part of the
  question, answer or explanation to ensure it is correct and good for assessment.
- Questions can be archived at any time, in which case they will no longer be shown to
  students

_Given this is a more summative type of assessment we opted to have the instructor
validate each question instead of having the LLM directly generate them for the student.
This is also useful from a monitoring / research perspective to compare the conversation
with SCUIRREL to the performance on the quiz questions. For more info, we refer to the
[researcher documentation](researcher.md)_

_This project was designed to help student gauge their background on this topic before
they come into class, or revisit it after class. For this reason, we do not recommend
using this application to teach brand new material, but rather serve as an aid for
students. You as an instructor should still be responsible for what's being taught :)_
